Added RangeSlider Docs (#678)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/rangeslider/ticks.md

---
title: Ticks
page_title: .NET MAUI RangeSlider Documentation - Ticks
description: Learn how to use the ticks that Telerik UI RangeSlider for .NET MAUI control provides.
position: 5
slug: rangeslider-ticks
---

# Ticks

The RangeSlider for .NET MAUI can show ticks along the track in order to enable users to easily identify the range values.

## Ticks Step and Placement

> In order to display ticks you need to define `TickStep` and `TickPlacement` properties of the RangeSlider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display ticks along the track, define the `TickStep` and `TickPlacement` properties of the RangeSlider.
```

* `TickStep(double)`&mdash;Defines at what positions/values ticks will be displayed.

> * `TicksPlacement(type Telerik.Maui.Controls.RangeSlider.SliderTicksPlacement)`&mdash;Specifies the position of the ticks in the RangeSlider with respect to its track. Available options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `TicksPlacement(type Telerik.Maui.Controls.RangeSlider.SliderTicksPlacement)`&mdash;Specifies the position of the ticks in the RangeSlider with respect to its track. The available options are:
```

    * `None`&mdash;no ticks are displayed.
    * `Start`&mdash;ticks appear above the track.
    * `Center`&mdash;ticks appear in the track area of the slider, overlaying the track.
    * `End`&mdash;ticks appear below the track.

## RangeSlider SnapMode

RangeSlider for .NET MAUI provides snapping to ticks thus limiting `RangeStart` and `RangeEnd` to a predefined set of values depending on `TickStep` value. You can control whether the snapping is enabled through `SnapMode` property:

* `SnapMode(type Telerik.Maui.Controls.RangeSlider.SliderSnapMode)`&mdash;Defines whether a value should be snapped to a tick while the end-user is dragging a start thumb, end thumb or the range track. Available options are:
    * `None`&mdash;The end user can move the dragged thumb freely.
    * `SnapToTicks`&mdash;The start and end thumbs are snapped to the position of the ticks when an end-user is dragging them.

The snippet below shows how the ticks configuration settings can be applied:

<snippet id='rangeslider-ticks-settings' />

> ## TickTemplate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tick Template
```

> Through `TickTemplate` property you can customize the appearance of the ticks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the `TickTemplate` property, you can customize the appearance of the ticks.
```

* `TickTemplate (DataTemplate)`&mdash;Defines the template of the RangeSlider ticks.

Check below a sample `TickTemplate` example:

> First define the custom DataTemplate:

Reviewer: Use a numbered list.
